8th of june 1997 we begin
the sutra talks on the nikayas
we know the nikayas contains the
original
shooters discourses of the buddha so
first i'd like to talk about the
importance
of studying this with jasmine
we find
that
the buddha he
struggled for about six years to attain
enlightenment and during that time he
struggled very hard
and
went through various teachers and all
that
and finally he attained enlightenment
and even
the traditional
books says that he
struggled for many lifetimes
but
we find
that
when his disciples
came to learn from the buddha
some of them
attain enlightenment after
seven days
like mahamu glana
14 days
so
we know
that the buddha's wisdom is supposed to
be
one of the greatest and yet now he took
six years of struggling
to attain enlightenment whereas some of
his disciples took only a few days so
the difference here is that
his disciples
learn the
path
the teachings from the buddha and then
they practice and they attain
enlightenment in a very short time
now so these discourses of the buddha
are actually concerned with the path of
the spiritual path
the way out of enlightenment
so that's why it is
very important for us
to
study the buddha's words
because
then
that will be the shortest path for us
we also know for example that
the external aesthetics
the
some of them practiced for a long time
and even attained the jhanas and yet
they did not attain the
paths and the fruitions
the stages of aryahud
and that was only because they did not
hear the dhamma the buddha's teachings
and even though they attained the janas
and their minds were supposed to be
quite clear
and yet
they miss the stages of
the
and
the other thing is we see from the sutas
that the buddha's disciples are called
savakas
which is pali or listeners or hearers
in sanskrit it is
and
the meaning is that the buddha's
disciples listen to the buddha's words
and when they listen to the buddha's
words in the sutures we find that many
of them attain stream entry
and
the buddha said the condition for stream
entry was listening to the words
of the teacher and having thorough
consideration yoniso manasikara
considering very carefully
close paying close attention to the
words of the teacher reflecting on
it and i was reflecting on the dharma
and then they attained unshakable faith
in the buddha dharma and sangha and as a
result of that now they had
a clear understanding of karma so they
kept their precepts very purely these
were the conditions and
for
stream entry
so that again
shows the importance of studying the
kayasa
now nowadays it is already
uh
2500 years after the buddha pass into
mahaparinibana and in the sutras we find
that the buddha said
after 500 years the teachings of the
buddha will be polluted
there will be wrong teachings that
will appear 500 years after the buddha
is passing away
and now 2 500 years now you can expect
much more polluted teachings
so
even the original pali canon nowadays
people talk about the tripitaka or
tipitaka the three
repositories three treasuries
of the buddha's teachings
and this word surprisingly to many
people surprisingly here this word is
never mentioned by the buddha the
tipitaka or tripitaka we find in the
discourses of the buddha that what the
buddha talked about now was
being
the monk's disciplinary corner
and dhamma in the
discourses of the buddha
was definitely the sutas the buddha
referred to the dhamma as the suitors
and nothing else
and so nowadays
we find a lot of controversial
uh
books
and and some are not controversial some
are controversial and out of the many
uh books now
available
the
four nikayas in the suta pitaka
the four nikayas are a set of books that
are definitely non-controversial
it is accepted by all the sex of
buddhism as
the teachings of the buddha
now these
four nikayas are found in our balikan
and interwater it is also found in the
mahayana books and in the mahayana books
they are called the agama sutras
the agama sutras and these
although
they are labeled as small vehicle
teachings
teachings by the mahayana
nevertheless and they accept that these
are the original words of the buddha
so
[Music]
since
nobody
disputes or nobody doubts that
the four nikayas are the original
teachings of the buddha that is
the best books to rely on because there
is no doubt at all as to
there being the original teachings of
the buddha whereas others are a bit
controversial
in fact if we
study the four nikayas and the early
fornicators of the buddha
which means
we find that there are no contradictions
in the in the sutras in these phonikayas
whereas in other books there are
contradictions
that appear
uh among the books the the controversial
books as well as there are certain
things in there that contradict these
four original nikayas
so the focus of our attention in these
talks i will be on the phone nikayas
and another thing is
the buddha always taught us how to take
refuge in the triple gems these triple
gems the first one being the buddha the
scan being the dhamma the teachings of
the buddha and the third one being the
sangha
in certain cases
it is referred to as the arya sangha
sometimes in the suta the buddha also
talks about bhikkhu sangha
taking refuge in the bhikkhu sangha also
now
there are
i think two suitors
where the buddha had already passed into
mahaparinibana
and then in arahan he was teaching
layman
and
the layman was so impressed by the
arahant that the layman wanted to take
refuge with the
arhan
but the arahant said you cannot take
refuge with me you still must take
refuge with the buddha dharma and sangha
then this man thought that the buddha
was still alive he asked where is the
buddha now
and the arahant said the buddha has
already passed into nibana but even
though he has passed into nibana you
still must take refuge with the buddha
dharma and sangha this implies that our
teacher our only teacher is the buddha
and that is why the buddha could foresee
that
in the years to come there would be a
lot of wrong teachings that that was why
he purposely asked us to take refuge in
the buddha dharma and sangha
and there was a
second sangha council meeting that was
held about 100 years after the buddhas
passing to nibana in which 10 issues
were
debated
and they were resolved and one of the 10
issues was that
whether we should listen to our teacher
all the time and it was decided that if
our teacher teaches according to what
the buddha teaches we should listen to
him but if he teaches something that
contradicts what the buddha says we
should not listen to him
that is very clear that our teacher is
only the buddha
the original and the dhamma the original
teachings of the buddha that is why it
is very important to have a good
understanding
of the sutras sometimes we find it has
happened we find some people like
about a year ago
there was a lady who practiced
meditation for i heard something like 20
years and even teaching people
but because the foundation in the dhamma
was not strong enough
she
gave up the buddha's teachings and just
gave up the buddhist religion and
renounce the buddhist religion
and that is a result of not having a
good foundation in the teachings of the
buddha
now i'll go into an overview of the
nikayas nikayas means the collections
and collections of the buddha's
discourses in the suta pitaka
and
the discourses are called suta in bali
and sutra in sanskrit
and
there are five nikaias five collections
now in the
[Music]
theravada
long discourses of the buddha
and there are 34 long discourses of the
buddha and they are
spread out over three books
three books
and then the second one is majima nikaya
which consists of 152 sutas also over
three books
the third one is the sanguta nikaya
majima nikaya is the
collection of middle-length discourses
of the buddha or medium-length
discourses of the buddha sanguta nikaya
[Music]
sanguta means a group so it is a
collection of short discourses
group according to topics
so in the sanyuta nikaya we find there
are 56 sang utas
56 groups of discourses
and they are all a group according to
topics for example you have the devatas
and yuta i think that's the first one
and in there all the sutas have
something to do with devata the
heavenly beings
and then for example you have maharas
and utah and in the marathon utah all
the discourses have to do with mara
mahara plays a part in the discourses
then you have for example sati patana
sangyuta in the satipatanasan utah you
find all the sutras are concerned with
sati patana so to have a good
understanding of satipattana you have to
study the satipatanasan utah not just a
satipattana sutta satipatana
is just one suta that talks a bit about
sati patana whereas there are so many
discourses in the
sati patana sang utah that explains the
sati patana from different angles
and so on and so forth
so
ah now in the sanguita nikaya there are
over 2 000 short discourses short supers
and sanguta nikaya is a very very
important
collection of discourses because they
deal with very specific
topics
and
very technical and he explains very
detailed
about various things
now the fourth one
is the collection of short
discourses also grouped but
grouped according to the numerical
content
of the sutal
so
you have uh
the the groups are called
you can translate them as chapters
so you have 11 chapters 11 ibata the
first one is
chapter of the ones and then
[Music]
uka
not the suffering but duca here means
two
so it's a chapter of the twos and then
tikka nepata chapter of the trees etc
and there are 11 nepas 11
chapters
so for example
under
chapter of the ones all the sutas have
to do with one thing one thing one thing
and under the twos every suta has got to
do with two things
etc
and
there are also over two thousand sutras
in the anguttaranikaya
and there are five books the
samyutani kaya also has five books
angultranikaya also has five books
now the fifth one
is the kudakanikaya kudaka nikaya
literally means
minor collection
minor collection in other words some
discourses which were
sort of
came
were discovered later
which could not be fitted into the early
four nikayas they were grouped
into the kudaka nikaya minor collection
and they expected it to be minor not
many books but what happened over the
last 2 500 years was mung started to add
more and more books into that minor
collection so down it has grown into 15
books
so it is not the minor collection
anymore it has become the major
collection
and
in 1956
the burmese had a sangha council where
they added another three books
and we know that these three books are
not the words of the buddha
and so from there we can understand why
it is over the last two thousand five
hundred years
nikaya has grown bigger and bigger and
bigger
and so
now out of the 15 books and according to
the burmese 18 books only about five are
reliable
and if you have time later we'll go into
the five books also
the five books are not controversial
people accept them as the original
teachings of the buddha
and
over the last 100 years only the pali
tech society has made a great effort to
translate all these sutas into
english and they have managed to do it
very well
and
until recently they were the only people
who have translated all the
nikayas into english and it was only for
that means for the last 100 years you
know they were the only group of people
who translated the suitors completely
into english and only the last two three
years and have been new translations
like for example the
latest translation of the
long discourses of the buddha is by
maurice bosch dr maurice walsh in
england
and at first it was called the thin
cover edition was called thus have i
heard now they have made it into a thick
cover and called it the long discourses
of the buddha
and then the second one majima nikaya
there's also a new translation by
variable piku
nyanamoli and variable bhikkhu bodhi
and it's called the middle length
discourses of the buddha
so these are the latest translations and
then the other two sang yutanikaya and
angutta nikaya we still have to rely on
the polytech society edition because
there is no other addition
that is complete
so now i will go into the angutra nikaya
because why i select the angutta nikaya
as the first nikaya to go into because
it's the
comparatively
easier
collection to go into and a lot of the
discourses there are concerned with lay
people's lives
so it is not so technical and yet
yet there are some technical things in
there
and basically because it's easier to
understand so
we'll go into the
agutra nikaya now i won't go into all
the sutas because there are over 2000
sutas i will go into most of the sutas
those that are important
and then i will try to read it out
explain it and explain the implications
of the suta as well as compare it with
other suitas to give you a better idea
because
usually
a sutra will tell you something from one
angle and unless you compare with some
other sutas you might get a biased view
now this angutra
nikaya
i think or the only
collection of discourses
that does not have a name for every suta
the original bali
edition they did not have a name for
for each of the sutas they only had a
suita number
so i will give the suta number and the
suitable numbers that i give
all
the pali text society numbers so that if
you want to check the suta you can look
up the pali text
society translation of the angultra
nikaya which is called the gradual
sayings there are five books there
now
i will give a one hour talk and then
after that which is recorded after that
i will stop then
i invite you all to
to
come up with any questions or any
comments on what has been
talked on
now the sutra numbers of the
angutta nikaya generally it's like
angutta nikaya
um x
dot y dot z
now the first number x
uh is the nepata number that means the
chapter
and it only varies from one up to eleven
you only get one up to eleven
in the poly text
translation they call it book of the
ones book of the two's book of the trees
but i prefer to use the number
the the word chapter
so if you say
say for example you have a
suita called 5.7.13
5 is the nipata that means the chapter
of the fives
and then the second number six is the
vaga vaga is a section number because
every
chapter is divided into sections
vargas
and after that every section is divided
into suta numbers so the last number z
is the suta number so like 5.6.13
the 13 is the suta number the 13th suta
in the sixth
section
of the chapter of the fives
that is 5.6.13